---
layout: default
navid: privacy
title: Privacy Policy
image: images/back/privacy.webp
permalink: /legal/privacy.html
---

## Responsibility
{: .separator-right}

Responsible party pursuant to data protection laws, in particular the EU General
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), is:

Patrick Michl <br>
Floringasse 5 <br>
69117 Heidelberg <br>
Germany

## Your Rights
{: .separator-right}

You can exercise the following rights at any time using the contact details of
our data protection officer:

*   Information on your data stored by us and the processing thereof (Art. 15 GDPR),
*   Rectification of inaccurate personal data (Art. 16 GDPR),
*   Deletion of your data stored by us (Art. 17 GDPR),
*   Restriction of the data processing, provided that we may not delete your data due to legal obligations (Art. 18 GDPR),
*   Objection to the processing of your data with us (Art. 21 GDPR) and
*   Data portability, provide that you have consented to the data processing or have entered into a contract with us (Art. 20 GDPR).

If you have given us consent, you may withdraw it at any time, which will remain
in effect in the future.

You can contact a supervisory authority with a complaint at any time, e.g. the
supervisory authority of the state of your residence or the authority that
oversees us as the responsible party.

You’ll find a list of supervisory authorities (for the non-public area) with
their respective addresses at:
[https://www.bfdi.bund.de/DE/Infothek/Anschriften_Links/anschriften_links-node.html](https://www.bfdi.bund.de/DE/Infothek/Anschriften_Links/anschriften_links-node.html).

## Infrastructure
{: .separator-right}

### Type and purpose

  When you access our website – i.e. if you do not register or submit information
  – information of a general nature will be collected automatically. This
  information (server log files) contains the type of web browser, the operating
  system used, the domain name of your Internet service provider, your IP address
  and the like. It is processed in particular for the following purposes:

  *   Ensuring an unproblematic website connection
  *   Ensuring seamless use of our website
  *   Analysis of system security and stability as well as
  *   For additional administrative purposes.

  We will not use your data to draw conclusions about your person. This type of
  information will be statistically analyzed by us if necessary to optimize our
  website and its underlying technology.

### Legal basis

The processing occurs according to Art. 6 §1 (f) GDPR, based on our
legitimate interest in improving the stability and functionality of our website.

### Recipients

Recipients of the data may be technical service providers, who work on the
operation and maintenance of our website as the processor.

### Retention period

The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer required for the reason
they were collected. This is generally the case, after the respective session
has ended, for data that are used to make the website available.

### Mandatory or required provision

The provision of the aforementioned personal data is neither legally nor
contractually mandatory. Without the IP address however, the service and
functionality of our website are not guaranteed. Furthermore, individual
services can be unavailable or limited. For this reason, an objection is
excluded.

## Newsletter
{: .separator-right}

### Type and purpose

Your data will be used exclusively to send you the newsletter you subscribed for
via e-mail. We request your name so that we can address you personally in the
newsletter and identify you as needed should you want to exercise your rights as
a data subject.

To receive the newsletter, providing your e-mail address is sufficient. When you
subscribe to our newsletter, the data you provide will be used exclusively for
this purpose. Subscribers can also be notified by e-mail about circumstances
that are relevant to the service or registration (such as changes to the
newsletter offer or technical matters).

We need a valid e-mail address to complete your registration. In order to verify
that a registration is actually made by the owner of an e-mail address, we
utilise the ‘double opt-in’ procedure. To this end, we log the newsletter
subscription request, when a confirmation e-mail is sent and the receipt of the
requested reply. Additional data is not collected. The data will be used
exclusively for sending the newsletter and will not be shared with third
parties.

### Legal basis

Based on your express consent (Article 6 (1) a DSGVO), we will send you our
newsletter on a regular basis or comparable information via e-mail to your
specified e-mail address.

The consent to save and use your personal data for the newsletter may be
withdrawn at any time and remain in effect in the future. Every newsletter
contains a corresponding link, and you can also unsubscribe on this website at
any time or inform us of your cancellation via the contact option indicated at
the end of this privacy policy.

### Recipients

Recipients of the data may be processors.

### Retention period

Data are only processed in this context provided that the corresponding consent
has been given. The data will be deleted thereafter.

### Mandatory or required provision

The provision of your personal data is voluntary, based solely on your consent.
Unfortunately, we cannot send you our newsletter without your consent.

## Contact form
{: .separator-right}

### Type and purpose

The data you enter are used for individual communication with you. A valid
e-mail address and your name are required for this communication, which serves
to organize your inquiry and the respective subsequent reply. Providing
additional information is optional.

### Legal basis

The processing of the data entered in the contact form occurs on the basis of a
legitimate interest (Art. 6 §1 (f) GDPR).

By providing the contact form, our aim is to facilitate an uncomplicated means
for you to contact us. The information you enter will be used to process the
inquiry and saved for possible follow-up questions.

If you contact us to request an offer, the processing of the information
provided in the contact form will occur in order to implement pre-contractual
measures (Art. 6 §1 (b) GDPR).

### Recipients

Recipients of the data may be processors.

### Retention period

The data will be deleted no later than 6 months after processing the inquiry.

Provided that we enter into a contract together, we will use the statutory
retention periods in the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch) and delete
your data according to the respective stipulated deadlines.

### Mandatory or required provision

The provision of your personal data is voluntary. However, we can only process
your inquiry if you provide us with your name, e-mail address and the reason for
your inquiry.

## Google Analytics
{: .separator-right}

### Type and purpose

This website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service of Google LLC, 1600
Amphitheater Parkway, Mountain View, CA 94043 USA (hereinafter: ‘Google’).
Google Analytics uses so-called ‘cookies’, i.e. text files that are stored on
your computer and allow an analysis of your use of the website. The information
generated by the cookie about your use of this website is typically transmitted
to a Google server in the U.S. and stored there. However, due to the activation
of IP anonymisation on these websites, your IP address will be truncated
beforehand by Google within the member states of the European Union or in other
contracting states of the Agreement on the European Economic Area. Only in
exceptional cases will the full IP address be sent to a Google server in the
U.S. and truncated there. On behalf of the operator of this website, Google will
use this information to evaluate your use of the website, summarise reports on
website activities and provide other services related to website and Internet
usage to the website operator. The IP address transferred from your browser as
part of Google Analytics will not be combined with other data from Google.

The data processing purposes are the website-use analysis and the summary of
reports on activities on the website. Based on the use of the website and the
Internet, other related services will be provided.

### Legal basis

The processing of the data occurs on the basis of the user’s consent (Art. 6
§1 (a) GDPR).

### Recipients

The recipient of the data is Google as the processor. For this, we have entered
into the corresponding data-processing contract with Google.

### Retention period

The deletion of the data occurs as soon as they are no longer necessary for our
recording-keeping purposes.

### Third country transfers

Google processes your data in the United States of America and is subject to the
EU-U.S. Privacy Shield:
[https://www.privacyshield.gov/EU-US-Framework](https://www.privacyshield.gov/EU-US-Framework).

### Mandatory or required provision

The provision of your personal data is voluntary, based solely on your consent.
If you prevent access, this can lead to functional limitations on the website.

### Revocation of consent

You can prevent the storage of cookies by a corresponding setting in your
browser software; however, please note that in this case you may not be able to
use all the functions of this website in their entirety. Furthermore, you can
prevent the collected data generated by the cookie and the data related to your
use of the website (including your IP address) being transmitted to Google, as
well as the processing of this data by Google, by downloading and installing the
browser plug-in available at the following link: [browser add-on to deactivate
Google Analytics](https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=en-GB).

In addition, or as an alternative to the browser add-on, you can prevent
tracking by Google Analytics on our web pages [by clicking this link](# "Google
Analytics Opt-Out-Cookie setzen"), which will install an opt-out cookie on your
device. This will prevent data collection by Google Analytics for this website
and for this browser in the future, as long as the cookie remains installed in
your browser.

### Profiling

With the assistance of the tracking tool Google Analytics, the browsing
behaviour of the website visitors can be evaluated and their respective
interests can be analysed. For this analysis, we create a pseudonymous user
profile.

## Google Webfonts
{: .separator-right}

### Type and purpose

In order to present our content correctly and graphically appealing across all
browsers, we use ‘Google Webfonts’ from Google LLC (1600 Amphitheater Parkway,
Mountain View, CA 94043, USA, hereinafter ‘Google’) to display fonts on this
website.

You’ll find the data protection guidelines of the library operator Google here:
[https://www.google.com/policies/privacy/](https://www.google.com/policies/privacy/)

### Legal basis

Your consent is the legal basis for the integration of Google Webfonts and the
associated data transfer to Google (Art. 6 §1 (a) GDPR).

### Recipients

The use of script libraries or font libraries automatically triggers a
connection to the operator of the library. It is theoretically possible – but
currently also unclear whether and to what end – that the operator, in this case
Google, will collect data.

### Retention period

We do not collect any personal data via the integration of Google Webfonts.

You’ll find additional information on Google Webfonts at
[https://developers.google.com/fonts/faq](https://developers.google.com/fonts/faq)
and in Google’s privacy policy:
[https://www.google.com/policies/privacy/](https://www.google.com/policies/privacy/).

### Third country transfers

Google processes your data in the United States of America and is subject to the
EU-U.S. Privacy Shield:
[https://www.privacyshield.gov/EU-US-Framework](https://www.privacyshield.gov/EU-US-Framework).

### Mandatory or required provision

The provision of your personal data is neither legally nor contractually
required. However, the correct presentation of standard-fonts content is not
possible without this provision.

### Revocation of consent

The programming language JavaScript is regularly used to display content. Thus,
you can opt out of the data processing by disabling JavaScript execution in your
browser or by installing a JavaScript blocker. Please note that this may result
in functional limitations on the website.

## What else?
{: .separator-right}

### Encryption

To protect the security of your data during transmission, we use SSL encryption
via HTTPS.

### Revision

We reserve the right to amend this privacy policy so that it always complies
with current legal requirements or to implement changes to our services in the
privacy policy, e.g. when introducing new services. Your next visit will be
subject to the new privacy policy.

### Questions

If you have any questions pertaining to data protection, please send us an
e-mail or contact the person responsible for data protection in our
organization: [contact@frootlab.org](mailto:contact@frootlab.org)
