---
layout: post
navid: blog
title: "Old wine in smart bottles: The Motley"
short-title: Motley
author: Patrick Michl
license: CC BY 4.0
license-url: "https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"
image: images/back/painting.webp
preview: images/posts/preview/painting.webp
pdf: files/posts/2019-03-25-motley.pdf
categories:
  - Corporate
tags:
  - Motley
---

**Since almost 10 years the rate of data science publications has been growing
enormously! For scientists and developers, it is therefore becoming more and
more difficult to keep track of suitable current approaches.**

The accelerated publication rate, is not only caused by an increased demand, but
also due to the very nature of this area: The more you already know about your
data domain (wise people call it "belief"), the better your estimations for the
observed sample can be. This simple Bayesian wisdom has great implications for
data science: The publications are not only getting more in numbers, but also
in the numbers of partially overlapping domains!

So it should be quite clear, what the issue is. But what are the current tools,
to address it? Corresponding to their individual data domains, the research
papers in data science are distributed among different platforms. A typical
example, that I would like to pick is [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/) (pronounced
*archive*). Since the early days of the web, this 'Grande Dame' essentially
serves as a plain repository for PDF pre-prints. And since data science papers
usually deal with algorithms, these PDFs are quite often endowed with pseudo
code, which basically allows their implementation in any programming language of
choice.

It is quite obvious, that this organically grown [Paper Bottleneck]({% post_url
2019-03-20-three-obstacles-in-data-science %}) has substantial drawbacks: Due to
the limited space, the provided pseudo code often loses valuable details over
the original algorithm. But also if the original algorithm is provided online,
it can be grueling to properly identify it's scope and adapt it to the
underlying prerequisites - only to decide about it's suitability!

## What is Motley?

In a nutshell: The development- and exploration process in data science is
currently heavily impaired by the detour experienced by publications in paper
form. While it became easier and easier to publish,it became harder and harder
to get an overview. This is why we want to provide a better solution!

[Motley](/motley.html) is a smart algorithm repository server, that enforces
unified data interfaces for different algorithm categories. This allows Motley
not only to automatically evaluate and compare the hosted algorithms with
respect to given metrics but thereupon also to determine, which algorithm of a
given category and data domain is the currently best fitting ([CBF](/tags#CBF))
algorithm with respect to some metric. An example for such a metric would be the
average prediction accuracy within a fixed set of gold standard samples of the
respective domain of application (e.g. latin handwriting samples, spoken word
samples, TCGA gene expression data, etc.).

According to our [convictions](/corporate/2019/03/19/welcome-at-frootlab.html),
Motley is [free and
open-source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software), based
on the [Python](https://www.python.org/) programming language and actively
developed as part of our [Liquid
Coding](https://github.com/orgs/frootlab/projects) framework. For more
information please visit [GitHub](https://github.com/frootlab/motley).
